## Independent study, week 3

This week concerned the early period of music printing. Chapter 2 of Music Printing and Publishing (Krummel & Sadie, 1980) was an exquisitely detailed technical overview of the process of printing music on a hand press with moveable type. While some of the detailed descriptions taxed my visual imagination…
>“With his left hand he turned the ‘rounce’, which connected to a windlass slung under the frame, and thereby operated a system of belts to move the carriage bodily along the rails. The puller stopped the carriage when half of the forme was under the platen, caught hold of the bar with his right hand and drew it smoothly towards him through an angle of about 90°. The spindle turned, and the action of the screw sent the platen down about 15 mm, driving the tympan with considerable force on to the type. He released the bar and the tympan rose. Next he turned the rounce to the left…” (pp. 16-17)

…overall the meticulous account of the technical process was enlightening. The process of creating the punch, the matrix, and finally the type—this last being the only one whose direct impression we find in the extant printed object—is the invisible architecture of music printing: the demands and limitations of those physical materials and processes shape the design choices that determine the form of this genre, even as the technologies evolve. I look forward to studying the moveable type materials from the Crawford Collection this week and looking for evidence of these processes.

Krummel & Sadie also detail the range of approaches that different printers took to music, which is a complex visual language that relies on a range of precisely differentiated shapes—a whole battery of tinily intersecting curves, lines, and characters. Schemes for printing from three impressions (“first for the notes, second for the staves, and third for the text, initial letters, signatures and page numbers,” p. 20)  or from two (staves separate from everything else) or from one (each piece of type bearing the note, rest, or clef and any staff lines that intersected with it) all required differently designed and managed type founts.

Lenneberg (2003) again takes a more aerial view of the same period, attempting to determine the economic variables in early music printings, the size of print runs (widely ranging but often something like 500 to 1000 copies per edition), and the sometimes overlapping roles of composer, printer, publisher, and editor in the sixteenth century. Between these and the journal articles that I read—each of which was a much more tightly scoped inquiry, for example into politics of Byrd’s Catholic masses in Protestant England, or the impact of Jesuit college presses on Renaissance music printing in Spain—I have a broad understanding of the early printing period and a lot of questions to bring to the materials themselves.
