## Independent study, week 1

I spent most of this week setting up the logistical framework for my independent study—translating my proposal into a syllabus, scheduling my reading list across the weeks, and arranging for access to the Special Collections materials that I will consult this quarter. These materials come primarily from the William Crawford III Collection of Printed Music, which was acquired by the UW Music Library in 2014 and is housed in UW Libraries’ Special Collections. Judy Tsou, the former head of the Music Library, published an [article in *Notes*](https://www.jstor.org/stable/44735094) (the journal of the Music Library Association) in 2017, which has provided some useful information about the collection, highlighting objects of interest and explaining some of Crawford’s collecting, binding, and descriptive practices. Crawford’s own catalog of the collection, which is 667 pages long and [available online](https://guides.lib.uw.edu/ld.php?content_id=24035465), was useful because it’s a fully searchable PDF that includes details of publication, binding, printing method, and notes from Crawford’s extensive research. 

Diving into my reading list, I’ve begun with a few introductions and overviews: after reading the prefatory material to Krummel and Sadie’s 1980 *Music Printing and Publishing* and Lenneberg’s 2003 *On the Publishing and Dissemination of Music, 1500-1850*, I’m looking forward to reading these largely-chronological monographs. The technical details of printing (materials, tools, processes) and the broader social/historical perspective on publishing (patronage, politics, marketing, copyright) will be two complementary halves of this investigation.

Finally, for a more philosophical view, Broude’s (2021) article, [“Music’s Textual Dilemma,”](https://www.jstor.org/stable/48641125?seq=1) is a reminder of the fundamental tension in this field: because music is ephemeral, “music historians may prefer to write about music, but the object of their writing must be texts” (95). He details the many historical, cultural, and musical reasons why it is difficult—or even impossible—to use extant musical texts as evidence of the music they originally attempted to encode. Standardized pitches changed; temperaments evolved; only after the early-nineteenth-century invention of the metronome did a practice of tempo specification evolve. The material and design of instruments changed; styles of performance and expectations of score-fidelity, ornamentation, and improvisation changed. Still we have an incredible variety of historical materials that do capture so much in their material and informational details, as long as you know how to read them: by reading music, but also reading paper and binding and ink—and reading historical, contextual information about who notated the music, and how, and why. I’m excited to work toward developing a few more of those many overlapping literacies. 
