## The overview

### (1) Cataloging Mozart 78s for Capstone

For my MLIS Capstone project, I'm working with the Head of Monographic Cataloging at the UW Libraries to do original item cataloging for a historic collection of Mozart sound recordings on 78 rpm shellac discs. The [Offenbacher Mozart Collection](https://www.lib.washington.edu/music/specialcollections/mozart) at the University of Washington Libraries is a unique collection of over 1500 historic sound recordings, primarily on 78rpm shellac discs, of the vocal works of W.A. Mozart.

It's been exciting and challenging to work with these rare materials from the acoustic recording era, which are from early enough in the record industry to be wildly unstandardized. I am working in OCLC Connexion to do both copy and original cataloging: to my surprise, working with copy has been the more complex process, since it often involves updating old AACR2 records to RDA and assessing unattributed statements with external research (bracketed but unsubstantiated publication or recording dates, for instance).

## (2) Developing an optical media preservation workflow

I'm the 2021-22 James Leland Dirks, Jr. Preservation Intern at the University of Washington Libraries. This is a year-long opportunity to work alongside Preservation staff, learning and assisting with workflows from pamphlet binding and bibliographic collation to commercial binding and integrated pest management, digitization, and more.

For my spring quarter project, I'm doing a lot of research and attempting to develop a unified workflow for preserving optical media formats in the Libraries' Special Collections. TBD whether this is disk imaging, logical file copies, or a mix ... There are a couple of well-documented workflows out there from peer institutions, but the multiple variables at play—the range of available tools, variety of format & condition inputs, and desired outputs—make it a fun puzzle to determine what will work best for us.

## (3) Independent study of the history of music printing technologies

Last quarter I took LIS 508 "The History of Recorded Information" and researched a manuscript copy of Jean-Baptiste Lully's 1676 opera *Atys*, which was a beautiful old book object with a fascinating conservation history. Somehow the UW Libraries has four complete copies of this score: two first edition printed copies and two manuscript copies. My research ballooned out of scope for an eight-page paper and I designed an LIS 600 Independent Study for my final quarter to dive into some of the bigger questions that came up:
  * How and why does the history of notated music differ from textual history (i.e. the history of recorded information more generally)? 
  * What technological innovations shape the history of notated music?
  * How do manuscript and print cultures of notated music interact across time? What social and technological forces influence the adoption and adaptation of certain practices?
  * How are these histories manifested in the particular volumes in UW's collections? What physical evidence exists of the history of their manufacture, use, and transmission?

Big vague questions! I'm going to read a lot of books, look at some old music, and expand last quarter's paper into something that hopefully answers a few of these questions.

## (4) Ongoing work with classial music metadata and the Vocal Music Instrumentation Index

Since August 2021, I've been a volunteer contributor to the [Vocal Music Instrumentation Index](https://www.vmii.org/), a lovely site imagined and created by Ben Kazez to surface critical-edition movement-level metadata for baroque vocal music. I haven't contributed much lately—see nos. 1 through 3, among other activities!—but it's fun to apply LIS practices in a different forum. As the project grows, the metadata questions get gnarlier ... like, what counts as a "movement" in a French baroque opera? (i.e. what is the function *and* consistent unit to catalog?) How do you classify voice parts accurately and usefully?

My current to-do list is ... transcribing Handel opera texts! From a combination of the original libretto facsimiles (with their extremely creative orthography and Curſed Long Eſses!) and the text that's actually used in the critical editions (which is clean, but, you know, repeated over and over, hyphenated under melismae, and doesn't reveal line breaks).

## (5) "... and generally becoming an \~information professional\~ with coherent interests and skills.

This is the "miscellaneous" folder... stay tuned.
